[] Alex's summary
[] I will not repeat most common concerns, those have been summarized after each individual deal. And they have been adequately summarized by the AI in the previous section. I will instead try to provide some constructive ways to deal with most important concerns here.
[] 1. I think it is important to have interactive collaboration with the AI on data collection. I.e., suppose the AI collects data on Kraton. Some facts are easy to establish, and they receive high degree of certainty; therefore the AI moves forward. Some other facts are hard to establish, or we always want to human-check certain facts; in this case, the AI flags these cases to the human IN REAL TIME, e.g. via the interactive Claude Desktop app.
[] Why is this important? First and most importantly, say the AI is not interactive and misrecords the number of rounds in the deal. Instead of three rounds, two rounds are recorded, so that each bid gets “1” or “2”. Then the human needs to change all of these to “1”, “2”, and “3” throughout the entire deal. The same goes for multiple processes described in a single deal background. Second, the interactive AI will directly send the human to the relevant part of the deal background, saving time (for that reason, we should also record the deal background link, including the page, in the database).
[] I realize that this will not allow us to run large batches of deals in the background, but until the AI is capable of recording the number of rounds, processes, NDAs, etc. very reliably we will have to rely much more on human verification.
[] 2. I think the AI should ALWAYS flag for human review several types of information:
[] A. Anything that indicates the possibility of a round ending/another round starting. Anytime a board of directors/target/transaction committee/any other name we have seen so far meets at the deadline or a bit after the deadline of a bidding round, it is likely that they will discuss the sale process, so such a meeting should be flagged. Moreover, if during this meeting or soon after the meeting some bidders are dropped and some bidders are approached again, this indicates the likely start of the next round and, again, should be flagged. Additionally, if there is no officially stated starting date of round 1 in the background, we should assume that this round starts when the target's investment bank first starts contacting bidders. The event of such contacts/NDAs should also be flagged. Finally, sometimes the deal background will claim that the process lasts for two rounds (because they split between informal and formal rounds), but the reality is that there may be more than one informal or formal round. The naming of rounds should not be lifted from the background but instead inferred from the deal process. E.g., Kraton had an interim meeting of the Board during informal bidding, where they dropped some bidders and continued the process; this signifies two rounds of informal bidding.
[] B. On a related note, any bidding round extension OR the lack thereof following a stated bidding round deadline should be flagged, and the information about extensions or the lack thereof should be recorded, as these are informative about how the target runs the sale process.
[] C. An unknown type of the winning bidder must always be flagged. My hope is that we can fine-tune this, so that the AI can search for winning bidder type in other sections of the SEC filing (as explained in individual deal comments). Admittedly, this is one of the easiest human verification fixes that does not have to be interactive, but it is not a big deal, in the grand scheme of things, if this issue is reported by the interactive AI in real time.
[] D. For the same reason, an unknown type of a bidder who submits a formal bid is highly unusual and should be flagged.
[] E. If the number of NDA agreements signed is uncertain, as an example, say “more than 6” bidders have signed an NDA, and their types are “mixed”, without a good split between strategics and financials, this must be flagged by the AI. It is much more painful to backtrack across the entire deal background to verify these numbers later; real-time interactivity can help.
[] F. Any uncertainty about why a bidder dropped out/has been dropped out has to be flagged. My hope is that we will fine-tune the AI to be better as discerning reasons, and individual deal comments can help with this. But if this uncertainty still persists, the human should verify.
[] G. I do not know how bid conditionality will be recorded, but it might make sense to make it human verifiable for the first several deals, until we have an idea whether the AI is reliable in collecting conditions.
[] H. Exact dates are less interesting to me, but the order of events must be precise because allocating a bid to a wrong round of bidding is not good, see some individual case comments earlier in this document.
[] I. I assume that the next version of the AI will be good at separating the merger agreement event from the event of a public announcement of this merger agreement.  I also assume that the event of a public announcement of the sale process will be differently recorded from the event of a public announcement of the end of the process (i.e., of a merger agreement). This seems easy for the AI to handle, so this will likely not need human verification.
[] J. We have many duplicate rows. Advisors often get recorded multiple times, and it should be an easy fix to just keep one line per advisor name. Any time an affiliation of an advisor is unclear, this should be flagged for human verification.
[] K. On the same note of many duplicate rows. For some reason, indications of interest and bids are recorded as separate rows. Why is this necessary? In almost all instances, IOI = informal bid. Admittedly, in the STEC case, an IOI from WDC came with a markup of the merger agreement and without conditions, and came at the end of the process, so it is very reasonable to think about it as a formal offer. For this bid, indeed, the fact that this is an IOI but a formal bid potentially conveys different pieces of information. But another way to deal with this would be to say, anytime an IOI seems like a formal bid because of the markup and no conditions, the AI should flag it for human verification. Then, bid formality is verified, and there is no need to keep separate rows for a single bid anymore. Does this make sense or am I missing another important reason to have IOIs separately recorded?
[] L. Deals without bids for the entire company and with only partial bids, like Meredith, should absolutely be flagged.
[] M. Deals which are not price per share should be flagged when it is unclear what the currency of the offer is. E.g., one of the deals had partial bids in $M and full bids in $B, but the AI did not capture this. In the same deal, these bids were, in fact for the enterprise value and not equity value, and this should also be flagged.
[] 3. I will not summarize other issues (e.g., multiple processes in the same filing), as they are less pervasive, and the AI can probably be trained reasonably well to avoid those; if not, these issues should, of course, also be flagged.
[] With enough fine-tuning (if the AI learns between deals), we can drop some of the checks from obligatory human verification. But as it stands, we will need a good amount of it.
=====COMMENTS
