[] I. Providence
[] Okay. I'm on the Providence deal now, and I'm trying to understand the most typical mistakes that the AI makes.
[] 1. There seem to be some imprecisions regarding the date of events. In particular, when the deal background states the fourth quarter of a year that gives us a ninety day window instead of an annual window, or when the deal background states that something happens on the week of March the twenty eighth, this gives us a tight seven day window to figure out the date.
[] 2. date_assigned is oftentimes interpolated incorrectly, from the lower bounds and upper bound on the date that can be extracted from deal backgrounds.
[] 3. There seems to be a bunching of events such as when the bidders get contacted versus when they sign non-disclosure agreements or NDAs. Sometimes the AI is bunching these events together whereas they should be separate. They happen at different dates, and they are fundamentally different events because not every contact ends up signing an NDA.
[] 4. And this is important. The AI seems to be duplicating the number of contacts and the number of NDA agreements. And in particular, it's misreads the memorandums that have been offered to bidders who have already signed NDAs as separate NDA agreements by those bidders, and they get double counted. Beyond that, the AI should not be separately reporting nda and nda_signed stages as separate events, nda_signed is sufficient. Once we start estimating these data, I'm worried that we will end up double counting these because at that point, nobody will dig into these individual M&A cases to figure out what's happened and why this double counting has occurred.
[] 5. I understand that event_code=participation_count tries to count the number of bidders at different stages of the process. Such as the number of contacts, the number of NDA agreements, the number of informal (IOI) bids, and so on and so forth. The issue I have with this is that so far, it seems that sometimes participation_count double counts some of the bidders. In this deal, we can see this during the contact stage. participation_count records eleven strategics, eighteen financials, but then it double counts some of the strategics that have been later contacted by the target again. This is a problem. I think that participation_count should be recoverable from the number of contacts and the number of NDAs and the number of informal and formal bids that have previously been recorded in the database. In other words, participation_count is a constructed variable, and it is not a fact that we extract from the deal background.
[] 6. There is probably no need to keep track of targets contacting bidders that have already signed an NDA agreement. That is, it seems important to keep track of initial contacts between targets and bidders that are unsolicited, that are early stage, that happened before NDA agreements. But once those agreements have been signed, it can be assumed that the parties will talk to each other regularly, and there will be tons of these contacts. So, there is simply no need to record all of them, because that's gonna blow up the database.
[] 7. In this deal, and this is the only deal that I've checked so far, the AI seems to be having difficulties distinguishing between the date on which a round deadline has been set and the date on which it has expired. Those are two different dates, and we should clearly define them because these are important for understanding the deal structure.
[] 8. What is the difference between round_index and round_count? They seem to be capturing the same thing. And in particular in this deal, when two bidders get dropped by the target, they get round_count=2. And then when the next round of bidding starts, round_index=2. should not these two columns be combined into one?
[] 9. There seem to be some misalignments between the narrative of the deal background and the ordering of events in the database. Consider round two of bidding. Party C contacts the target and then signs an NDA and then submits an informal bid by July 12, before the remaining parties who have who have been previously accepted into round two. Yet the AI records these events in the opposite order. I think this possibly has something to do with the inability of the AI to assign a precise date or range of dates to round two bids. And the likely reason for that is that the deal background states that these bids happen in late July 2016. That's July 20 to July 31. The deadline of round two is July 20, but one of the bidders submits the bid on July 21. And then the Transaction Committee of the target meets on July 22. This very narrowly limits the timing of round two bids to July 20 to July 22. And that puts anything that party C, the latecomer, does clearly before the actions and bids of its competitors. Things like these, when we have to cross-check across multiple paragraphs for dates and for events, and maybe even for deal terms and contingencies, I think, are difficult for the AI and perhaps they should be flagged for human review.
[] One addition to this is that it seems that the target has allowed G&W to submit a revised bid on July 26, and then they had another meeting of the Transaction Committee on July 27. So I would say that this revised bid is still a part of round two of bidding, and July 27 is a fair assessment of the deadline.
[8B0000] 10. And this one is a bit difficult because I think it requires a certain amount of expertise. I suggest that we record bids that come with the markups to the merger agreement and/or voting agreements as formal offers. However, if such bids come with conditions such as extensive due diligence, exclusivity, or financing requirements, or really anything else that can materially affect the value of the deal or completion certainty, then we have an additional column that collects information on these conditions. I don't want detailed conditions, because I have a different project on that already with Brett and Shreye. What I want is some kind of a flag that says, this deal has heavy conditionality or light conditionality or non conditionality at all. And as a result, even though the offer seems formal because it comes in with all the markups... if or when we want during the estimation stage, we can look at conditionality, and THEN make a decision whether to treat this bid as formal or informal. On the other hand, if a bid comes in without conditionality or with light conditionality, and with all the markups, we can THEN make a decision that this is indeed a formal deal. Another way to reinterpret would be to say that we're still at stage 2 of the process, and it's about informal bids, so all bids, however certain in their conditionality, are to be treated as informal.
[8B0000] This is one of the biggest complications of interpreting these deal backgrounds if you are a deal outsider, since formality of some of these bids is open to interpretation. And hence, we should give ourselves some freedom and flexibility to reinterpret such bids during the estimation process, so that our estimates are robust to different interpretations. I hope this makes sense.
[8B008B] 11. This one is tricky and what you would call low-confidence, but useful to think about. And it will also require cross-checking across different paragraphs of deal backgrounds. In this deal, two bidders admitted into round two don't submit bids. Sometimes it is possible to figure out who they are, or who they are not.
[8B008B] In particular, early in the deal background, it is stated that party A, a strategic bidder, signs an NDA. And then it is claimed that at the end of round two, one of the strategic bidders did not submit an IOI. I think a reasonable conclusion here is that since the deal background thought it prudent to mention bidder A initially, it would then continue mentioning this bidder during the bidding stage, and it would then mention that it this bidder dropped out at some point. The fact that the background does not mention this implies, to me, that bidder A has never made it out of round one of bidding. And so indeed the strategic bidder that drops out in round two is unnamed, it's not bidder A.
[8B008B] Why can this be important? because bidder A was the first party that has approached the target, and that eventually led to the initiation of the sale process. If you think about selection, the bidder who approaches can ostensibly be different than other bidders across a number of characteristics. This is why it approaches the target in the first place. And so the fact that this bidder ended up dropping out in round one, when it was likely to be at the top range of valuations initially before it did its round one due diligence... This may be informative for us during estimation.
[8B008B] So this kind of inference requires a bit of cross checking and, I guess, a bit of human judgment.
[8B0000] 12. Sometimes a deal background will not mention the start of the next bidding round. However, they should be easy to infer, if the deal background states that the previous round of bidding has finished, and then you see bidders continuing to submit their offers after the target has allowed them to continue bidding and contacted them for an offer update.
[8B0000] Another complication is, how do we learn if a bidding round is final or not? Or viewed as final in the moment? Sometimes, the background does not tell this information even if it declares the start of the new bidding round. And if it does not declare this, it is less likely that there is information about the target accepting final bids only. It is entirely possible that at this point, bids are still called something like letters of intent or LOIs. But they come really late in the process. And so we expect these to have a high degree of formality.
[8B0000] And I think if we are lucky then we will see the target saying, this is the final round of bidding, or that everybody must submit formal committing bids. If we are less lucky, the target can say that it is interested in completing the negotiation of the merger agreement with one of the bidders left in the process, or it can say that it intends to enter into a merger agreement soon. For Providence, this happened after round two (which was announced) and during round three (which was not announced). From here, it should be clear that only formal bids (or formal bids with conditions, which we can later reinterpret as informal if we want) are allowed or are seriously considered by the target at this stage.
[8B0000] This, again, will require us scanning all paragraphs pertaining to a round of bidding for these words to assess finality of the round.
[] 13. This is a small one. But in this particular deal, an investment bank that the target has retained as their financial adviser has two different names. And that's because the original bank that they've contacted has been acquired by a different bank later on. So to my mind, this is a single adviser. And on the off chance that we are gonna see a lot of this IB merger and renaming activity going on, we need to be careful about it.
[8B0000] 14. Sometimes you see a bidder submitting an offer that is either informal or what I call in this document "formal with conditions". And later on, usually really close to the end of the process, the bidder reconfirms the same offer. In such cases, the background will say that the bidder has provided a revised markup to the merger agreement or something similar. And, importantly, this revision will have no conditions or very light conditions. And so what used to be informal or a "formal conditional" offer becomes properly formal. And I think this fact needs to be captured, this is bid revision. In the case of Providence, an additional row on August 4 stating that party B has submitted a formal unconditional offer for $24.00/share should be included.
[8B0000] So there is a bit more of this tricky judgment that the AI will have to do. If you know these deal backgrounds and you're an M&A expert, figuring out when an informal bid is revised and becomes formal is obvious, but hopefully the AI can learn to do this.
[] 15. It would be useful to record at the end of the process two separate dates. First, the date when a merger agreement is executed. For Providence, that is August 12. And second, the date when a merger agreement is announced to the public. For Providence, that is August 15. From the perspective of the sale process, it is over by August 12, but the broad public does not know that for three more days.
[] This is potentially important if we ever end up looking at the market reaction to announcements of M&A. And if we want to tie those to features of the sale process. Of course, information about successful deals trickles into the markets before broad market announcements. But the largest market reaction is still on the announcement date.
[] So to conclude. To sum up this one deal so far, there are two broad points. The first one, when I read this deal background just now and compared it against the AI-collected database, I did not look at my earlier hand-collected database. Despite this, I came up with basically the same reading of major facts in this deal as before. Some facts and some dates in the hand-collected were incorrect or imprecise, and this is where the AI can do a good job -- although it clearly has its own date collection/interpolation issues. And, of course, the format of the two databases is very different, so it is not straightforward to compare them by hand. But, again, I ended up reading and commenting on major facts in the exact same way as in the hand-collected database. This probably has something to do with the fact that I've read a thousand or so of these backgrounds back in the day. So I know how lawyers who write these think and when they omit things, and what it is that they omit. So, what this tells me is that if there is a way for the AI to learn well from the hand-collected database or from comments in this document + comments I left in the AI-collected spreadsheet, then I would strongly prefer that. The AI is, of course, good at supplementing major facts with supplementary facts that haven't been hand-collected. But major facts in the earlier database, I find them to be quite solid.
[] The second point, I think a lot of these AI mistakes could easily be caught on careful reading of the deal background, and the reader does not have to be an expert to catch most of these mistakes. I'm gonna continue reading these deal backgrounds, checking them against the AI-collected database and trying to come up with other typical data collection issues. But I do not believe that the pipeline is close to shipping just yet. I also want you, Austin, to manually read these deal backgrounds against the AI collection, because I want you to learn how these documents are structured, how the lawyers think, and how the AI misreads them. This is because in the end of the day, you are the one fine-tuning the AI against the reality. We need to keep adjusting the pipeline until we achieve reasonable consistency in terms of the sequence of events, in terms of double counting, in terms of certain events missing, etc. -- everything that has been mentioned in this Word document so far.