[] II. Mac Gray
[] I like this deal because it once again has multiple rounds of bidding, informal and formal, and multiple bidders. And so this could be a good litmus test for the AI-collected database.
[] 1. In this deal, it appears that initially, the target and its investment bank have approached one potential bidder. So this situation is different from other deals in which a bidder expresses an interest in a passive target. This should be reflected in the database as target interest first and foremost rather than bidder interest, I do not think this is properly reflected at the moment. Of course, in the end, the bidder might be interested in a target, which apparently it was the case here, but ultimately the target has made the first move. It's good to keep a sequence of these events.
[] What's interesting is that for Mac Gray, the target never ended up initiating the sale process on its own, despite approaching that bidder (party A). On June 21, while still thinking about various strategic alternatives for more than a month, the target have been approached with an informal bid by that same party A. This makes the initiation process quite complicated. The target was active initially and approached party A, alerting them to deal possibility. Then it was passive. And eventually, party A came back. Is this a target- or bidder-initiated deal? I don't know, a bit of both. So it is important to keep track of all these interactions so that we can reinterpret the data various ways during estimation.
[] 2. This comment is very similar to comment 3. for Providence. Some of the events seem to be absent from the database. For example, on June 24, 35 financials and 15 strategics has have been contacted by the target. And eventually, these numbers appear in participation_count, but the event itself is not recorded.
[] For the NDAs, party B and party C are recorded separately from NDAs of other bidders. For those other bidders, 20 NDAs are recorded, 2 strategics and 18 financials. But we have to be careful because for two named bidders, their NDAs have been recorded separately. This only leaves 2 strategics and 16 financials that are unnamed and signed NDAs. So the math has to check out.
[] Another thing that again goes back to the Providence deal is that there is no clear indication that one of the bidding rounds starts, in this case round one. However, from the context, it is clear that round one started on June 24 when the Transaction Committee met and decided to start the selling process. And the deadline on round one is July 23.
[] And, as before, there is some duplication of advisers being retained, for more specific details, please refer to the spreadsheet.
[] 3. In the background, there seems to be a pretty clear indication that round two of informal bidding starts on July 25. It even says that the investment bank discussed with the Special Committee a proposed process for the second stage of the ongoing sale process. Moreover, four bidders from stage one were invited to submit additional bids. Initially, round two did not have a deadline, but on August 27, this deadline was announced as September 9. This information should also be in the database.
[8B0000] 4. This one is difficult to parse because it is spread over far away paragraphs. On page 32, it says that over the next two months, a total of 20 potential bidders, including 2 strategic bidders, including party A, entered into confidentiality agreements with the targets. As we later learn, party A did not sign an NDA for a good while. This brings us to page 34 where on August 5, party A finally enters into an NDA agreement. The AI, however, records the NDA with party A earlier, when it records 2 unnamed strategics with an NDA. One of them is double-counted earlier, because it is the eventual winner CSC/Pamplona who signs on NDA on July 11. Now, we know that the second one is double-counted, because it is party A on August 5. The appropriate way to record this: CSC/Pamplona's NDA = July 11; party A's NDA = August 5; NO other strategics sign an NDA.
[] 5. I have been thinking about the way in which the AI can best capture bid conditionalities. It goes back to the Providence deal as well. For Mac Gray, we have CSC/Pamplona submitting an indication of interest, and they claim that financing is 100% guaranteed. The AI records this conditionality -- in fact, the lack of it -- as a separate row.
[] Two comments here. First, ideally we want to have conditions in the same row as the bid itself, this will make it easier to figure out whether the bid is conditional or not. But I understand if this is difficult to ask of the AI, so that conditions will have to just follow the bid in a separate row. Second, I would rather record the lack of financing guarantees than their presence. Their presence keeps the informal bid informal and the formal bid formal. But their lack may prompt us to drop the formal bid to informal during estimation. So, in Mac Gray, party B also submits an indication of interest on a same date as CSC/Pamplona, but does not have firm financing commitments. Party B therefore gets an additional row saying that they don't have financing. Or, instead, an additional column in the same row as the bid.
[] 6. At the very end of the process, party A makes an indication of interest between $18 and $19/share. And it says that this is their best and final offer, and this is the final stage of bidding. This bid is currently recorded as formal. And I think I want to keep it this way. What a range of bids implies, though, is that party A is likely still uncertain about something. Maybe about financing. Maybe they have some remaining due diligence to do. But it is not stated in the background. So, while we can keep this bid as formal, if we see a range of bids on a formal bid during the estimation process, we can always reinterpret a bid like that as informal if needed.
[] 7. This again comes back to conditionalities. In late bidding rounds, we oftentimes see bids conditional on exclusivity. I think we should record this conditionality in the same way we record, or will record from now on, financing or due diligence conditionalities. I think when a bidder has this exclusivity requirement, it should not downgrade its formal bid to an informal bid, neither in a database nor in our estimation later.
[8B0000] 8. Some of the high-confidence facts recorded by the AI are not facts at all. For example, there is a claim with assigned_date of September 18, that at least two mixed parties dropped out of the auction. And it refers to a paragraph in the background that does not have this information at all. Later on, on September 24, it becomes clear that out of the three remaining bidders, one was granted exclusivity, and the other two are dropped out by the target. So, the actual date of the dropout event is September 24, and there is certainty that there are exactly two dropped bidders. And we know who they are, party B and party C. And it's the target that drops them. And on top of that, this event occurs later in the timeline, and not on September 18. So my worry is that once in a while, we see these stray facts that are supposedly high-confidence. But they are either entirely invented or poorly interpolated by the AI. We should try to train the AI not to invent things. But also, this implies a lot more human verification work.
[] 9. This is a quick one and reiterates on the comment in the Providence deal. Goodwin Procter, a legal adviser, is recorded to have been retained at the end of the process by the target. Of course, this legal adviser has been present at least since the beginning of the sale process, and this is stated in the deal background. But it is likely that this legal adviser has been advising the target for a lot longer. So it would be good to at the very least record the first instance, May 9, in which this legal adviser is mentioned in the deal background. We want to keep a clear ordering of events.
[] So to to sum up this deal, again we need to be more careful about collecting facts: the number of NDA agreements; conditionality of offers that will allow us to reinterpret formal bids as informal if needed; some stray facts that the AI either generates or interpolates incorrectly. Once again, while verifying the AI-collected data, I have not looked at the previously hand-collected data that I had. Now I came back to this hand-collected data, and I continue to agree with the major facts documented there. If the AI can be trained to recognize these major facts in the way it was done in a hand-collected database, this would substantially improve the AI-collected data quality.