[] III. Petsmart
[] If I recall correctly, this deal is a lot less structured than the deals before. In particular, it does not have well-defined rounds, or not all rounds are well-defined. So it would be interesting to see how the AI can tackle a deal like that.
[] 1. Again, this is a recurring comment. If a deal background tells us that something happens say in the first week of October, that limits the date inference to seven days. if there is also a meeting, let's say, that happens on October 3, and from the context, it is clear that the target will start contacting bidders after that meeting, that further limits the date inference to October 3 - October 7. And, by the way, such a meeting would also indicate that a new round or, in this case, round one of bidding starts on October 3.
[] 2. We have also seen this before. Sometimes rows that include participation_count or rows that keep track of the number of contacts or NDAs with a timestamp, these rows cannot pinpoint the number of bidders precisely. In this example, there are statements like at least 27 bidders have been contacted. The deal background, however,  clearly states that 27 is the precise number.
[8B008B] 3. This one is may be tricky for the AI to catch and is not a very common situation. The background says that in round one, 6 bidders have submitted IOIs, 3 bidders among them initially indicated price ranges that reached at least $80/share. Buyer Group bid $81-83. Another bidder bid $80-85. Bidder 2 initially bid $78 and LATER increased that to $81-84. Now go back to the initial sentence. Buyer Group and another bidder are only 2 out of 3 bidders who bid at least $80. Bidder 2 is initially below $80. This means that there is one bidder that has still been unaccounted for that has initially bid at least $80. Later on, the background confirms this, saying that they will allow the four bidders who had indicated a price or range at or above $80/share to proceed.
[8B008B] This logic is probably too complicated for the AI to capture, and situations like this are likely uncommon. But a note needs to be be made nonetheless.
[] 4. This is a small quibble, but on November 2, a single bidder submits two bids. The initial one and the revised one. In the database, the AI marks these bids appropriately. But event_order for these bids is reversed, and it makes it hard for a human verifier to read the data and figure out why the order is reversed. I think it would make sense to arrange bids by the same bidder on the same day in the order in which they appear.
[] 5. 15 NDAs have been signed. Six IOIs have been made. 4 of them have been accepted into the final round. What is the reason for the remainder of bidders dropping out? The background says that remaining 2 bidders who have submitted IOIs have been approached by the target's investment bank, and then they have been eliminated. This sounds to me like the target's decision to drop them. For the remaining 9 bidders with NDAs but without IOIs, they haven't been approached by the IB. They haven't stated the reason for dropping out, so that should be recorded as unknown.
[] 6. In this deal, the final round, round two, ended up being extended by two days. The original deadline was December 10, the new deadline became December 12. This doesn't look like a new round of bidding, just a continuation of round two. But it is a meaningful extension, because some bid revisions arrive.
[] If we want to be really careful about this, we can record deadline revisions. E.g., when round two was announced, the deadline was set at December 10. On December 10, this deadline has changed to December 12, and this is a separate row in the data. Why is this important? Because this can be an indication that the target is unhappy with bids and it has limited committing power or chooses not to commit to the original conditions of the deal process. Of course, in some other deals that we will see, targets will follow the announced deal structure much more closely, either because they find no reason to break commitments or they are in a rush to sell, or something else.
[] And if we don't want to be really careful about this, we can simply record the final amended deal deadline, which in this case is December 12. But I think it costs us very little to collect these deadline revisions.
[] 7. The AI-collected data reports a consortium formation between Longview, a large shareholder of the target, and the Buyer Group, which became the eventual winner. This is because they have agreed to roll over the equity stake of Longview and signed a confidentiality agreement between each other. This is not a consortium formation. What a rollover of the equity stake achieves is that the bidder can pay the same price per share, but they have to buy fewer target shares because Longview retains its equity stake in the combined company instead of being bought out. So Longview doesn't provide the bidder with financing. It doesn't provide it with additional synergies. At best, it relaxes the bidder's financial constraint to complete a cash acquisition. This is not a consortium formation to me.
[] Okay. So given the previous two deals and given the fact that this deal was less structured, I am surprised at how much better the AI has managed to collect these data. I think one of the reasons is that when a deal is more structured, the AI is often having difficulties figuring out the beginning and the end of various bidding rounds. In a less structured deal, this is less of a concern. Another thing to note is that at this point, many of the problems that the AI has collecting the data are starting to repeat, and there are fewer genuinely new problems that I encounter. Overall, the AI reading of this deal as well as my new reading of it appears to be very consistent with the earlier hand-collected database.